## COMP 310/ECSE 427 Winter 2018
# Assignment 3
### 2018-03
- #### Student name: Simon Zheng
- #### Student ID: 260744353

---

## 1 Theoretical Questions

1. They are counting semaphores, which means multiple processes/threads can still access the critical section concurrently. We want a mutex to limit it to a single process or thread. Problems could be for example, if multiple consumers dequeue an item concurrently (one after the other), and it is not atomic either, then they could be dequeuing the same item, which should be impossible and incorrect.

2. No, it is not.
While mutexes use a priority queue, (strong) semaphores use a FIFO queue.
The mutex only allows one producer/consumer anyway, and it is "contained inside" the semaphore section (the semaphore surrounds it and they immediately follow each other) in producer-consumer setup.
So the semaphore sends the processes/threads one at a time to the mutex (since it only allows one at a time) and since it is FIFO it si pretty fair.  
Otherwise, weak semaphores could allow starvation to happen since they do not enforce FIFO.

3. Mutexes have ownership/exclusivity.
They only allow the process or thread which locked it to unlock it.
For binary semaphores, there is no guarantee that a process/thread could not unlock one that was locked by another and is still inside the critical section.

4. The "full" semaphore is to protect the consuming part.
When it reaches 0, it means the queue is empty, and a consumer should *not* try to consume something which does not exist.
Same for the "empty" semaphore, a producer should be blocked from trying to produce an item and put it in a full queue.
There could be race conditions too otherwise, where two producers check the "empty" value concurrently (successsively) and both assume the queue still has a single place left because the check+production is not atomic.
The semaphore protects against this, and we need one for both producer and consumer.
